These are the email addresses for the City of Newport City Councilors.
jbova@cityofnewport.com
staylor@cityofnewport.com
jnapolitano@cityofnewport.com
justin-at-large@cox.net
amccalla@cityofnewport.com
www.ceglie2ndward.com
KateLeonard@aol.com

Subject: Defund Newport Police

Hello,

My name is [name] and I am a resident [and a registered voter - if applicable] of Newport. I am writing to demand that the members of the Newport City Council do everything in their power to adopt a budget that redirects all funds from the Police Department and towards community wellbeing, mental health and the needs of its residents. It has been abundantly clear for many years that police forces generally are ineffective at keeping all members of the communities safe; they perpetuate the oppression of residents who are people of color, undocumented persons, the mentally ill, the disabled, and LGBTQ persons. The recent police murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis is but one of countless police murders of Black men in America, the modern-day equivalent to the thousands of Ku Klux Klan lynchings of Black men not so long ago. Police departments across America must recognize and end the systemic racism that permeates policing throughout the US, but police departments have proven they won’t deal with this matter on their own. There must be systemic change forcing police departments across America to acknowledge police complicity in the brutalization of people of color in America and Black men in particular. As elected officials having the power to direct and implement the Newport Police 2021 budget, the Newport City Council needs to be part of the solution; indifference, inaction or silence on this matter will only embolden racist cops throughout the land, and fuel the righteous and justifiable rage of the affected communities. All people holding an elected public office should be leaders in this struggle to confront and call out the systemic racism that is deeply ingrained in the American “justice” system. It will continue to be an uphill battle to correct centuries of brutality and oppression, but your actions towards that end, as a voting member of the Newport City Council charged with funding an American police department, will be a worthwhile and a significant step to apply pressure on police departments where it’s felt the most; deny public funding to a corrupt and racist system that has shown no interest in reforming itself. Imagine how much those public dollars could accomplish when used to fund low-income public housing, education, resources for formerly incarcerated individuals, drug treatment on demand, and public transportation.

Newport may be a small city, but by taking concerted action on the police budget, we can make an impact on the United States at large. We desperately need to change our financial priorities and let our tax dollars go to communities, not cops.

Thank you for your time,

[name]
[address]
[email address]
[phone number]
